Hi, my name is Steve.
I am the head of frontend
engineering at Temporal.
We are going to talk
about React performance.
And performance is a multifaceted
thing to talk about, right?
Cuz even if you were trying to
make a React app performant,
there are other things
that are React adjacent to
the performance of your React application,
right?
For instance, if you follow every
piece of advice in this talk and
it's not on a CDN,
there's pieces there, right?
There are other pieces to performance.
So this talk we're gonna focus
mostly on what that means in
terms of a React application.
And I think it's super
exciting cuz along the way,
you kind of learn a little bit
more about how React works.
So we'll kinda get into what we're
gonna talk about and go over today.
I do wanna point out that there are,
not one, not two, but five repos.
Because, coming up with example apps that
highlight every different thing you wanna
talk about, doing that one app,
turns out is difficult.
During five apps, it's not as easy to
cover those but then you have five apps.
So, I will put these here now, for
people who are tuning in live,
they are in the chat.
For those of you watching later, there
are probably someways convenient below or
next to this video that you're watching.
But yes,
I would right now kind of we will start,
they are effectively in
chronological order, so no pressure.
But we'll do a few little challenges and
spelunking adventures with
the React Developer Tools,
solve different kinds of problems and
different challenges.
One of them I've just hidden
the slow part in various places,
you can go suss it out and
figure out how to solve for it.
And so, yeah,
we have some practical examples that we
can work through in our time together.
So let's kinda just level set and talk
about what are we gonna talk about in this
course and who is it for,
and stuff along those lines.
Basically, if you're looking for
more insight to actually how
React does the thing, right?
You're like, I heard something,
something virtual dom, right,
or something along those lines.
In the effort to understand
how we can either, A,
help the performance of
a React applications or B,
accidentally hurt the performance
of our React applications, right?
We are accidentally going to have
to learn how React reacts, right?
And then, along the way, the kind of
core thing is building a tool set for
diagnosing performance issues in React.
React is decently fast out of the box,
one of the things I will say is that a lot
of the applications we are going to
use are simplified versions, right?
Sometimes I had to put
an intentionally slow pace.
I'm like, all right,
let's put 10,000 rows on the page, right?
Most performance issues are usually
the accumulation of a bunch of
tiny things that happened over three,
six months a year,
none of them in and
of themselves are maybe the one big thing.
It is possible to do one big terrible
thing that slows down your app, but
you usually find that out pretty quickly.
And there's who made
the last commit to main and
you kinda reverse engineer from there.
I think what is more interesting and
probably more practical is the,
hey, when we did get init in whatever,
everything was great.
18 months in, and now we're like,
you start the jokes about how you're
gonna jokingly rewrite the app.
And then eventually the jokes
become a not joke thing, right?
And so this is to stop you from that thing
cuz everyone thinks that's a good idea
in the beginning.
I've done it more than once,
it's never a good idea.
And then, I think probably the piece
that I'm most excited about,
is as we walk towards
those first two bullets,
looking at how to follow
React best practices,
understanding why they are what they are,
right?
So you ideally don't get yourself
into the situation where you
have this increasingly burdensome
amount of bugs you have to find.
The nice part about solving these
performance issues is the techniques that
we're gonna see on these relatively
small example apps that are clear and
to the point.
Those techniques are the same
ones that you use when
it's a big tangled mess
of performance bugs.
Solving is just applying it repeatedly.
It's kinda like untying a big knot, right?
You just start pulling out the threads
with the technique you know how to do.
And that is definitely
a running theme around here.
Generally speaking,
there are kind of three major topics,
about three or four major ways that you
can solve for performance issues in React.
So what do we learn?
We're gonna learn about all the caching
and memorizing stuff that you see,
particularly the moment you go
React performance into Google.
And you see these blog
posts that are like,
throw React memo on everything, right?
That's not a good idea.
And the nice part is we will understand
what the tradeoffs are at that point.
It is a tool that sometimes you need to
use and sometimes it is the right choice.
But the second bullet of the way that you
structure your components and the way
that you structure your state sometimes
can actually eliminate the performance
problem without having to use,
I'm gonna cache this and memoize that.
Because one of the themes,
I have a slide dedicated to
Steve's Golden Rule performance.
I'll do a spoiler now,
which is that not doing stuff is
faster than doing stuff, right?
And there's corollaries to that,
which is doing stuff later
is better than doing it now.
These works for both life as
well as performance, by the way.
But the act of checking to see
if something's in the cache or
memorized, that is a thing, right?
And so yes, if it saves you more work than
rendering an expensive tree, totally.
At the same time, if you structure your
code where you don't have to check, well,
that's way faster, right?
And so we'll talk about how you can
actually not have to use the kinda common
performance tools and get better
performance than having to use them.
And then React 18 brought a bunch of
new concurrency features, and for
the weapons grade performance problem
that you really need to solve for.
And we'll take a look at those brand
new concurrency features in React and
how to use them and
when they're appropriate.
They are definitely the, like,
okay, I have a very bespoke special
issue that no amount of rearranging
my components is gonna solve.
You now have some really great tools for
solving that.
This is the last slide in the deck,
it's also the fourth or fifth slide or
whatever, the fifth slide.
But it's also the 48th slide as well,
and so kinda just give you a preview of
the end, and where we end at the end
of this whole story together.
Which is the kind of
hierarchy that you should
follow when solving a performance
problem in React, right?
One is if you can just
structure your components and
state in a way that eases the problem,
well,
that's good because you're not like,
other than rearranging your code,
you're not doing the memoization and
caching, those extra checks, right?
So that is inherently gonna be faster,
right?
And like caching and memoization
are solid strategies but not only do they
have a hopefully smaller cost than
rendering that entire part of the tree,
but if you mess up caching,
you can have weird bugs, right?
So it's like,
you have to hope that the medicine is
better than the disease sometimes, right?
As I say in, what are the only two
hard problems in computer science?
Are naming things, cache invalidation
off by one errors, all right?
As somebody who had to name a bunch of
projects, I definitely feel number one as
somebody who has been bitten by
the caching memoization bugs.
I understand number two as well.
Then we have some of
the newer APIs in React.
Suspense is a set of APIs.
Really there's about one of them
that you can use currently,
which is the idea of
lazy loading components.
Stuff like lazily doing data fetching
is only available if you use a highly
opinionated framework like next, or
remix, or something along those lines.
So we'll just cover the ones that are
generally applicable to React apps today,
which is loading components lazily,
who doesn't like doing stuff lazily?
And then lastly, we'll talk a little bit
about the transition API which is brand
new to React 18.
And how and when and
why you might use it as well as,
how exactly it works,
and all those things.
So that's kinda where we end up.